# Contributing to SpaceCat

So you'd like to contribute to the SpaceCat Discord project? Well you're in luck because we're a little short on developers... or generally just anyone ranging from designers, testers, QA, translaters, you name it. If you've got any experience in Python or would just love to create a better Discord experience for everyone, feel free to join the club so long as you're willing to accept the few and loose guidelines.

## Want to talk?
There's no official method of communication right now, but you can join my testing Discord server for questions and contribution related conversations.

https://discord.gg/AzNake

If you need any help with the Discord API itself, you're best going on the Discord API server.

https://discordapp.com/invite/discord-API


## How Do I Contribute?

### Bug Reporting
The easiest way to contribute to the project without programming experience is to simply report bugs on the [issue page](https://gitlab.com/Mizarc/spacecat-discord-bot/-/issues). Be sure to follow the issue reporting guidelines, providing as much information as possible so as to reduce confusion and speed up the bug squashing process.

### Feature Requesting
As with bug reporting, you may report features on the [issue page](https://gitlab.com/Mizarc/spacecat-discord-bot/-/issues). Your requested features must be something that can be managable to implement in a reasonable amount of time, while also being something that people will regularly use. Please describe the necessary use cases and be as detailed as possible.

### Code Contribution
If you've had a look at the feature request or bug report page and want to contribute before I get the time to, you may fork the project and send a merge request to potentially have your changes added. If you're new to git, here's a general rundown:

1. Fork the repo from THIS project
2. Clone your forked project onto your own device
3. Work on changes on your copied repo as you see fit
4. Submit a pull request on THIS project

If you've become a regular contributer, you may end up on the development team to be able to contribute directly onto this project. :D


## Workspace Setup
It is recommended to work in a UNIX environment, using either Linux or MacOS as a reocmmendation. If on Windows, you can make use of [WSL](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10) or [install make through chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/packages/make) to work with make files.

Commonly used make commands:
- `make setup` generates the virtual environment and fetches all dependencies to create an optimal development environment
- `make run` runs the program in the virtual environment
- `make clean` removes all temp files related to the virtual environment


## Project Structure

### What do all the branches mean?
Branches are laid out in a pretty straightforward way.
- `master` holds the lastest development release. Ensure that it is able to be run at all costs. Do not commit to this directly.
- `feature/` prefix is for adding new or improving upon existing features.
- `fix/` prefix is for non urgent bugs or bugs that may take an extended time to repair.
- `hotfix/` prefix is for urgent bugs that should be worked on ASAP and sent to the next patch release.
- `release/` prefix is for maintaining an older feature release, usually to send out bug fixes.

### Why are the folders organised the way they are?
Somewhere along the line I decided this was a good way to organise a Python project. They're not very clear as to how to properly structure a project so I came up with my own style. If you want to dispute it and make some changes, contact me on the [Discord server](https://discord.gg/AzNake). I'm always willing to learn more.
- `cache` is for temporary bot generated content. This is cleared on restarts.
- `data` is for persistent bot generated content. Try to change this as little as possible as data restructuring is a nightmare.
- `logs` contains log data generated by the discord api, used for problem solving.
- `scripts` usually gets used for applying test or fixes.
- All necessary python source code is located within the `spacecat` folder
  - `helpers` is for code that is shared between modules.
  - `modules` are collections of commands and listeners, forming a complete feature set.


## Style Guidelines

### Git Messages
- Use an imperative, present tense style (Say "Fix bug" not "Fixed bug").
- Be descriptive, explain why the changes were made and what was implemented to do so.
- Limit the subject line to 50 characters.
- Add a blank line between the subject line and the commit message body.
- Limit the message body to 72 characters per line.

### Python
This project generally just follows the PEP8 layout. If your IDE uses the 
Flake8 linter as recommended, it should warn out about most issues, though you 
can read [The PEP8 guidelines](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) 
yourself. There are a few important notes specific to this project:
- We use spaces, not tabs.
- Keep code under a 99 character per line limit.
- Keep docstrings under a 79 character per line limit.
- Double quotes are utilised for all strings.